# Getting Started
The 2016 election of Donald Trump as the President of the United States started an explosion of growth on the left. Membership in socialist organizations of all stripes grew exponentially after the inauguration. Many of these people migrated from the Democratic Party, disillusioned with a party machine who put forward a candidate hated by a large population of people in the US. A large portion of these new leftists have no organizing experience whatsoever, and may have no experience in organizing. Some new converts are experienced organizers from the Democratic Party, who brought their tactics and strategies with them to the left. Strategies like mass protests (note: mass protests are a tactic, but liberals tend to use them as a strategy) and pressuring elected officials for legislative change, along with tactics like door knocking, phone banking, and get-out-the-vote are Democratic Party staples that these new leftists may try to use to build power and affect change. These actions were wholly ineffective when employed by the Demcratic Party in an attempt to put Hillary Clinton into office, and likewise have proven innefective at providing real material gains for the working class. Though we have seen an uptick in liberal style demonstration and protests, we have yet to see an impact on working people's day to day lives.
 
To understand why these actions have proven completely impotent, we must first understand their nature. All of the actions listed above are transactional by nature. They expect someone to perform an action -whether it be call a representative, sign up to vote, etc, to accomplish a goal. It does very little to tie in the person that needs to perform the action, or the nature of the goal and how an action relates to it, it just asks that they do it. The transactional nature of participation in our political process put forward by liberal organizing alienates people from it. Large swaths of the elligible voting population don't even show up to the polls because they do not feel like voting has any impact on them -and why should they? Despite performing the transactions liberal organizers present them, working class people get nothing (or very little) from the political process. Or, put another way, despite performing the labor to produce something (in this case a political outcome) the working class' "payment" for that labor is next to nothing, while politicians reap the rewards of their work. Here, laid bare, we can see that liberal organizing in rooted in a capitalist framework-from its transactional processes to its exploitation of labor, and thus is ineffective at fighting for changes to the system because liberal orgaizing is itself rooted in the system.
 
Organizers in the SRA must reject the capitalist nature at the center of the tactics and strategies used by liberals, and instead re-center the persons they are trying to organize. Though some of the liberal tactics can be useful, like door knocking or protests, we must ardently avoid turning these tactics into a transactional exchange. The point of this guide is to explain the tools used by effective organizers, tools that center people and reject transactionalism, that help build community and promote engagement. Using these tools, and guided by a socialist ideology, we can truly build the world we want to see.